Chapter 1: Security Governance Through
Principles and Policies
1. C. Hardware destruction is a violation of availability and
possibly integrity. Violations of confidentiality include stealing
passwords, eavesdropping, and social engineering.
2. B. The primary goals and objectives of security are
confidentiality, integrity, and availability, commonly referred to
as the CIA Triad. The other options are incorrect. A security
infrastructure needs to establish a network's border perimeter
security, but that is not a primary goal or objective of security.
AAA services are a common component of secured systems,
which can provide support for accounting, but the primary goals
of security remain the elements of the CIA Triad. Ensuring that
subject activities are recorded is the purpose of auditing, but
that is not a primary goal or objective of security.
3. B. Availability means that authorized subjects are granted timely
and uninterrupted access to objects. Identification is claiming an
identity, the first step of AAA services. Encryption is protecting
the confidentiality of data by converting plaintext into
ciphertext. Layering is the use of multiple security mechanisms
in series.
4. D. Security governance seeks to compare the security processes
and infrastructure used within the organization with knowledge
and insight obtained from external sources. The other
statements are not related to security governance.
5. C. A strategic plan is a long-term plan that is fairly stable. It
defines the organization's security purpose. It defines the
security function and aligns it with the goals, mission, and
objectives of the organization. The tactical plan is a midterm
plan developed to provide more details on accomplishing the
goals set forth in the strategic plan or can be crafted ad hoc
based on unpredicted events. An operational plan is a short-
term, highly detailed plan based on strategic and tactical plans.
It is valid or useful only for a short time. A rollback plan is a
means to return to a prior state after a change does not meet
expectations.
6. A, C, D, F. Acquisitions and mergers place an organization at an
increased level of risk. Such risks include inappropriate
information disclosure, data loss, downtime, and failure to
achieve a sufficient return on investment (ROI). Increased
worker compliance is not a risk, but a desired security
precaution against the risks of acquisitions. Additional insight
into the motivations of inside attackers is not a risk, but a
potential result of investigating breaches or incidents related to
acquisitions.
7. C. Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a
set of security standards and requirements designed to ensure
the protection of sensitive credit card and debit card
information. The other options are incorrect. Information
Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) was initially crafted by
the British government for domestic use but is now an
international standard, which is a set of recommended best
practices for core IT security and operational processes, and is
often used as a starting point for the crafting of a customized IT
security solution. ISO 27000 is a family group of international
security standards that can be the basis for implementing
organizational security and related management practices. NIST
Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) is designed for critical
infrastructure and commercial organizations and consists of five
functions: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. It is
a prescription of operational activities that are to be performed
on an ongoing basis for the support and improvement of
security over time.
8. B. The security professional has the functional responsibility for
security, including writing the security policy and implementing
it. Senior management is ultimately responsible for the security
maintained by an organization and should be most concerned
about the protection of its assets. The custodian role is assigned
to the person who is responsible for the tasks of implementing
the prescribed protection defined by the security policy and
senior management. An auditor is responsible for reviewing and
verifying that the security policy is properly implemented and
that the derived security solutions are adequate.
9. A, B, C, E. The COBIT key principles are: Provide Stakeholder
Value (C), Holistic Approach (A), Dynamic Governance System
(E), Governance Distinct from Management (not listed),
Tailored to Enterprise Needs (not listed), and End-to-End
Governance System (B). The concept of maintaining authenticity
and accountability are good security ideas, but not a COBIT key
principle.
10. A, D. Due diligence is establishing a plan, policy, and process to
protect the interests of an organization. Due care is practicing
the individual activities that maintain the security effort. The
other options are incorrect; they have the terms inverted. The
corrected statements are as follows: Due diligence is developing
a formalized security structure containing a security policy,
standards, baselines, guidelines, and procedures. Due care is the
continued application of a security structure onto the IT
infrastructure of an organization. Due diligence is knowing what
should be done and planning for it. Due care is doing the right
action at the right time.
11. B. A policy is a document that defines the scope of security
needed by the organization and discusses the assets that require
protection and the extent to which security solutions should go
to provide the necessary protection. A standard defines
compulsory requirements for the homogenous use of hardware,
software, technology, and security controls. A procedure is a
detailed, step-by-step how-to document that describes the exact
actions necessary to implement a specific security mechanism,
control, or solution. A guideline offers recommendations on how
security requirements are implemented and serves as an
operational guide for both security professionals and users. III is
the definition of a baseline, which was not included as a
component option.
12. D. When confidential documents are exposed to unauthorized
entities, this is described by the I in STRIDE, which represents
information disclosure. The elements of STRIDE are spoofing,
tampering, repudiation, information disclosure, denial of
service, and elevation of privilege.
13. B. This scenario describes a proactive approach to threat
modeling, which is also known as the defensive approach. A
reactive approach or adversarial approach to threat modeling
takes place after a product has been created and deployed. There
is no threat modeling concept known as the qualitative
approach. Qualitative is typically associated with a form of risk
assessment.
14. A, B, D. These statements are true: (A) Each link in the supply
chain should be responsible and accountable to the next link in
the chain; (B) Commodity vendors are unlikely to have mined
their own metals, processed the oil for plastics, or etched the
silicon of their chips; and (D) Failing to properly secure a supply
chain can result in flawed or less reliable products, or even
embedded listing or remote control mechanisms. The remaining
option is incorrect. Even if a final product seems reasonable and
performs all necessary functions, that does not provide
assurance that it is secure or that it was not tampered with
somewhere in the supply chain.
15. D. Though not explicitly stating hardware, this scenario
describes a typical and potential risk of a supply chain, that a
hardware risk results in the presence of a listening mechanism
in the final product. This scenario does not provide information
that would indicate that the supply chain risk is focused on
software, services, or data.
16. B. In this scenario, Cathy should void the authorization to
operate (ATO) of this vendor. This situation describes the fact
that the vendor is not meeting minimal security requirements,
which are necessary for the protection of the service and its
customers. Writing a report is not a sufficient response to this
discovery. You may have assumed Cathy does or does not have
the authority to perform any of the other options, but there is no
indication of Cathy's position in the organization. It is
reasonable for a CEO to ask the CISO to perform such an
evaluation. Regardless, the report should be submitted to the
CISO, not the CIO, whose focus is primarily on ensuring that
information is used effectively to accomplish business
objectives, not that such use is secure. Reviewing terms and
conditions will not make any difference in this scenario, as those
typically apply to customers, not internal operations. Reviewing
does not necessarily cause a change or improvement to insecure
practices. A vendor-signed NDA has no bearing on this scenario.
17. A. Minimum security requirements should be modeled on your
existing security policy. This is based on the idea that when
working with a third party, that third party should have at least
the same security as your organization. A third-party audit is
when a third-party auditor is brought in to perform an unbiased
review of an entity's security infrastructure. This audit may
reveal where there are problems, but the audit should not be the
basis of minimum security requirements for a third party. On-
site assessment is when you visit the site of the organization to
interview personnel and observe their operating habits. This is
not the basis for establishing minimum security requirements
for a third party. Vulnerability scan results, like third-party
audits, may reveal concerns, but it is not the basis for
establishing minimum security requirements for a third party.
18. C. Process for Attack Simulation and Threat Analysis (PASTA) is
a seven-stage threat modeling methodology. PASTA is a risk-
centric approach that aims at selecting or developing
countermeasures in relation to the value of the assets to be
protected. Visual, Agile, and Simple Threat (VAST) is a threat
modeling concept that integrates threat and risk management
into an Agile programming environment on a scalable basis.
DREAD (Damage, Reproducibility, Exploitability, Affected
Users, and Discoverability) is a flexible threat rating system that
is based on the answers to five main questions about a threat.
STRIDE is a threat categorization scheme developed by
Microsoft.
19. B, C, E, F, G. The five key concepts of decomposition are trust
boundaries, dataflow paths, input points, privileged operations,
and details about security stance and approach. Patch or update
version management is an important part of security
management in general; it is just not a specific component of
decomposition. Determining open- versus closed-source code
use is not an element of decomposition.
20. A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I. All of the listed options are terms that
relate to or are based on defense in depth: layering,
classifications, zones, realms, compartments, silos,
segmentations, lattice structure, and protection rings.