Chapter 1
Security Governance Through Principles and
Policies
THE CISSP TOPICS COVERED IN THIS CHAPTER
INCLUDE:
Domain 1.0: Security and Risk Management

1.2 Understand and apply security concepts

1.2.1 Confidentiality, integrity, and availability,
authenticity, and nonrepudiation (5 Pillars of
Information Security)

1.3 Evaluate and apply security governance principles

1.3.1 Alignment of the security function to business
strategy, goals, mission, and objectives

1.3.2 Organizational processes (e.g., acquisitions,
divestitures, governance committees)

1.3.3 Organizational roles and responsibilities

1.3.4 Security control frameworks (e.g., International
Organization for Standardization (ISO), National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST),
Control Objectives for Information and Related
Technology (COBIT), Sherwood Applied Business
Security Architecture (SABSA), Payment Card
Industry (PCI), Federal Risk and Authorization
Management Program (FedRAMP))

1.3.5 Due care/due diligence

1.6 Develop, document, and implement security policy,
standards, procedures, and guidelines

1.10 Understand and apply threat modeling concepts and
methodologies

1.11 Apply supply chain risk management (SCRM)
concepts

1.11.1 Risks associated with the acquisition of products
and services from suppliers and providers (e.g.,
product tampering, counterfeits, implants)
1.11.2 Risk mitigations (e.g., third-party assessment
and monitoring, minimum security requirements,
service level requirements, silicon root of trust,
physically unclonable function, software bill of
materials)
Domain 3.0 Security Architecture and Engineering

3.1 Research, implement, and manage engineering
processes using secure design principles

3.1.1 Threat modeling

3.1.3 Defense in depth
The Security and Risk Management domain encompasses many of
the foundational elements of security solutions. Additional elements
of this domain are discussed in various chapters:
Chapter 2, “Personnel Security and Risk Management Concepts”
Chapter 3, “Business Continuity Planning”
Chapter 4, “Laws, Regulations, and Compliance”
Chapter 19, “Investigations and Ethics”
Please review all these chapters to have a complete perspective on
the topics of this domain.

Security 101

We often hear how important security is, but we don't always
understand why. Security is essential because it helps to ensure that
an organization can continue to exist and operate despite any
attempts to steal its data or compromise its physical or logical
elements. Security is an element of business management rather
than only an IT concern. Furthermore, IT and security are different.

Information technology (IT)
 
or even
 
information systems (IS)
 
is the
hardware and software that support the operations or functions of a
business. Security is the business management tool that ensures the
reliable and protected operation of IT/IS. Security exists to support
the organization's objectives, mission, and goals.
Generally, a security framework that provides a starting point for
implementing security should be adopted. Once security is initiated,
fine-tuning that security is accomplished through continuous
evaluation and stress testing. There are three common types of
security evaluation: risk assessment, vulnerability assessment, and
penetration testing (these are covered in detail in
Chapter 2 and
Chapter 15, “Security Assessment and Testing”).
 
Risk assessment
 
is
identifying assets, threats, and vulnerabilities to calculate risk. Once
risk is understood, it is used to guide the improvement of the existing
security infrastructure.
 
Vulnerability assessment
 
uses automated
tools to locate known security weaknesses, which can be addressed
by adding more defenses or adjusting the current protections.

Penetration testing
 
uses trusted teams to stress-test the security
infrastructure to find issues that may not be discovered by the prior
two means and to find those concerns before an adversary takes
advantage of them.
Security should be cost-effective. Organizations do not have infinite
budgets and, thus, must allocate their funds appropriately.
Additionally, an organizational budget includes a percentage of
monies dedicated to security, just as most other business tasks and
processes require capital, not to mention payments to employees,
insurance, retirement, etc. You should select security controls that
provide the most significant protection for the lowest resource cost.
Security should be legally defensible. The laws of your jurisdiction
are the backstop of organizational security. When someone intrudes
into your environment and breaches security, especially when such
activities are illegal, prosecution in court may be the only available
response for compensation or closure. Also, many decisions made by
an organization will have legal liability issues. If required to defend a
security action in the courtroom, legally supported security will go a
long way toward protecting your organization from facing significant
fines, penalties, or charges of negligence.
Security is a journey, not a finish line. It is not a process that will
ever be concluded. It is impossible to fully secure something because
security issues are always changing. Our deployed technology is
changing with the passage of time, by users' activities, and by
adversaries discovering flaws and developing exploits. The defenses
that were sufficient yesterday may not be sufficient tomorrow. As
new vulnerabilities are discovered, new means of attack are crafted,
and new exploits are built, we have to respond by reassessing our
security infrastructure and responding appropriately.

Understand and Apply Security Concepts

Security management concepts and principles are inherent elements
in a security policy and solution deployment. They define the basic
parameters needed for a secure environment. They also define the
goals and objectives that both policy designers and system
implementers must achieve to create a secure solution.
The 5 Pillars of Information Security are confidentiality, integrity,
availability, authenticity, and nonrepudiation. The first three of
these, namely confidentiality, integrity, and availability, are so
commonly discussed as a group they have been labeled with their
own phrase, the
 
CIA Triad
. The elements of the CIA Triad are often
perceived as the primary goals and objectives of a security
infrastructure (see
 
Figure 1.1).
FIGURE 1.1
 
The CIA Triad
Security controls are typically evaluated on how well they address
these three core information security tenets. Vulnerabilities and risks
are also evaluated based on the threat they pose against one or more
of the CIA Triad principles.

Confidentiality

The first principle of the CIA Triad is confidentiality.
 
Confidentiality

is the concept of the measures used to ensure the protection of the
secrecy of data, objects, or resources. The goal of confidentiality
protection is to prevent or minimize unauthorized access to data.
Confidentiality protections prevent disclosure while protecting
authorized access.
Violations of confidentiality are not limited to directed intentional
attacks. Many instances of unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or
confidential information are the result of human error, oversight, or
ineptitude. Confidentiality violations can result from the actions of
an end user or a system administrator. They can also occur because
of an oversight in a security policy or a misconfigured security
control.
Numerous countermeasures can help ensure confidentiality against
possible threats. These include encryption, network traffic padding,
strict access control, rigorous authentication procedures, data
classification, and extensive personnel training.
Concepts, conditions, and aspects of confidentiality include the
following:

Sensitivity
 
Sensitivity
 
refers to the quality of information
that could cause harm or damage if disclosed.

Discretion
 
Discretion
 
is a decision where an operator can
influence or control disclosure to minimize harm or damage.

Criticality
 
The level to which information is mission critical
is its measure of
 
criticality
. The higher the level of criticality, the
more likely the need to maintain the confidentiality of the
information.

Concealment
 
Concealment
 
is the act of hiding or preventing
disclosure. Concealment is often viewed as a means of cover,
obfuscation, or distraction. A related concept to concealment is

security through obscurity
, which attempts to gain protection
through hiding, silence, or secrecy.

Secrecy
 
Secrecy
 
is the act of keeping something a secret or
preventing the disclosure of information.

Privacy
 
Privacy
 
refers to keeping information confidential
that is personally identifiable or that might cause harm,
embarrassment, or disgrace to someone if revealed.

Seclusion
 
Seclusion
 
involves storing something in an out-of-
the-way location, likely with strict access controls.

Isolation
 
Isolation
 
is the act of keeping something separated
from others.
Organizations should evaluate the nuances of confidentiality they
wish to enforce. Tools and technology that implement one form of
confidentiality might not support or allow other forms.

Integrity

Integrity
 
is the concept of protecting the reliability and correctness
of data. Integrity protection prevents unauthorized alterations of
data. Properly implemented integrity protection provides a means
for authorized changes while protecting against intended and
malicious unauthorized activities (such as viruses and intrusions)
and mistakes made by authorized users (such as accidents or
oversights).
Integrity can be examined from three perspectives:
Preventing unauthorized subjects from making modifications
Preventing authorized subjects from making unauthorized
modifications, such as mistakes
Maintaining the internal and external consistency of objects so
that their data is a correct and true reflection of the real world
and any relationship with any other object is valid, consistent,
and verifiable
For integrity to be maintained on a system, controls must be in place
to restrict access to data, objects, and resources. Maintaining and
validating object integrity across storage, transport, and processing
requires numerous variations of controls and oversight.
Numerous attacks focus on the violation of integrity. These include
viruses, logic bombs, unauthorized access, errors in coding and
applications, malicious modification, intentional replacement, and
system backdoors.
Human error, oversight, or ineptitude accounts for many instances
of unauthorized alteration of sensitive information. They can also
occur because of an oversight in a security policy or a misconfigured
security control.
Numerous countermeasures can ensure integrity against possible
threats. These include strict access control, rigorous authentication
procedures, intrusion detection systems, object/data encryption,
hash verifications (see
Chapter 6, “Cryptography and Symmetric Key
Algorithms,” and
Chapter 7, “PKI and Cryptographic Applications”),
interface restrictions, input/function checks, and extensive
personnel training.
Concepts, conditions, and aspects of integrity include the following:

Accuracy
: Being correct and precise

Truthfulness
: Being a true reflection of reality

Validity
: Being factually or logically sound

Accountability
: Being responsible or obligated for actions and
results

Responsibility
: Being in charge or having control over
something or someone

Completeness
: Having all necessary components or parts

Comprehensiveness
: Being complete in scope; the full inclusion
of all needed elements

Availability

Availability
 
means authorized subjects are granted timely and
uninterrupted access to objects. Often, availability protection
controls support sufficient bandwidth and timeliness of processing
as deemed necessary by the organization or situation. Availability
includes efficient, uninterrupted access to objects and prevention of
denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. Availability also implies that the
supporting infrastructure—including network services,
communications, and access control mechanisms—is functional and
allows authorized users to gain access.
For availability to be maintained on a system, controls must be in
place to ensure authorized access and an acceptable level of
performance, to quickly handle interruptions, provide for
redundancy, maintain reliable backups, and prevent data loss or
destruction.
There are numerous threats to availability. These include device
failure, software errors, and environmental issues (heat, static
electricity, flooding, power loss, and so on). Some forms of attack
focus on the violation of availability, including DoS attacks, object
destruction, and communication interruptions.
Many availability breaches are caused by human error, oversight, or
ineptitude. They can also occur because of an oversight in a security
policy or a misconfigured security control.
Numerous countermeasures can ensure availability against possible
threats. These include designing intermediary delivery systems
properly, using access controls effectively, monitoring performance
and network traffic, using firewalls and routers to prevent DoS
attacks, implementing redundancy for critical systems, and
maintaining and testing backup systems. Most security policies, as
well as business continuity planning (BCP), focus on the use of fault
tolerance features at the various levels of access/storage/security
(that is, disk, server, or site) with the goal of eliminating single points
of failure to maintain the availability of critical systems.
Availability depends on both integrity and confidentiality. Without
integrity and confidentiality, availability cannot be maintained.
Concepts, conditions, and aspects of availability include the
following:

Usability
: The state of being easy to use or learn or being able to
be understood and controlled by a subject

Accessibility
: The assurance that the widest range of subjects
can interact with a resource regardless of their capabilities or
limitations

Timeliness
: Being prompt, on time, within a reasonable time
frame, or providing a low-latency response

DAD, Overprotection, Authenticity, Nonrepudiation, and
AAA Services

In addition to the CIA Triad, you need to consider a plethora of other
security-related concepts and principles when designing a security
policy and deploying a security solution. These include the DAD
Triad, the risks of overprotection, authenticity, nonrepudiation, and
AAA services.
One interesting security concept is the opposite of the CIA Triad,
which is the DAD Triad. Disclosure, alteration, and destruction make
up the
 
DAD Triad
. The DAD Triad represents the failures of security
protections in the CIA Triad. It may be useful to recognize what to
look for when a security mechanism fails. Disclosure occurs when
sensitive or confidential material is accessed by unauthorized
entities. It is a violation of confidentiality. Alteration occurs when
data is either maliciously or accidentally changed. It is a violation of
integrity. Destruction occurs when a resource is damaged or made
inaccessible to authorized users (technically, we usually call the latter
denial of service [DoS]). Destruction is a violation of availability.
It may also be worthwhile to know that too much security can be its
own problem. Overprotecting confidentiality can result in a
restriction of availability. Overprotecting integrity can result in a
restriction of availability. Overproviding availability can result in a
loss of confidentiality and integrity.

Authenticity
 
is the security concept that data is authentic or genuine
and originates from its alleged source. This is related to integrity but
more closely related to verifying that it is from a claimed origin.
When data has authenticity, the recipient can have a high level of
confidence that the data is from whom it claims to be and did not
change in transit (or storage).

Nonrepudiation
 
ensures that the subject of an activity or who caused
an event cannot deny that the event occurred. Nonrepudiation
prevents a subject from claiming not to have sent a message, not to
have performed an action, or not to have been the cause of an event.
It is made possible through identification, authentication,
authorization, auditing, and accounting. Nonrepudiation can be
established using digital certificates, session identifiers, transaction
logs, and numerous other transactional and access control
mechanisms. A system built without proper enforcement of
nonrepudiation does not provide verification that a specific entity
performed a certain action. Nonrepudiation is an essential part of
accounting. A suspect cannot be held accountable if they can
repudiate the claim against them.

AAA services
 
are a core security mechanism of all security
environments. The three As in this abbreviation refer to
authentication, authorization, and accounting (or sometimes
auditing). However, what is not as clear is that although there are
three letters in the acronym, it actually refers to five elements:
identification, authentication, authorization, auditing, and
accounting. These five elements represent the following processes of
security:

Identification
 
Identification
 
is claiming to be an identity
when attempting to access a secured area or system.

Authentication
 
Authentication
 
is proving that you are that
claimed identity.

Authorization
 
Authorization
 
defines the permissions (i.e.,
allow/grant and/or deny) of a resource and object access for a
specific identity or subject.

Auditing
 
Auditing
 
is recording a log of the events and
activities related to the system and subjects.

Accounting
 
Accounting
 
(aka
 
accountability
) is reviewing log
files to check for compliance and violations in order to hold
subjects accountable for their actions, especially violations of
organizational security policy.
Although AAA is typically referenced in relation to authentication
systems, it is actually a foundational concept for security. Missing
any of these five elements can result in an incomplete security
mechanism. The following sections discuss identification,
authentication, authorization, auditing, and accounting (see
 
Figure
1.2).
FIGURE 1.2
 
The five elements of AAA services

Identification

A subject must perform identification to start the process of
authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA). Providing an
identity can involve typing in a username; swiping a smartcard;
waving a proximity device; speaking a phrase; or positioning your
face, hand, or finger for a camera or scanning device. Without an
identity, a system has no way to correlate an authentication factor
with the subject.
Once a subject has been identified (that is, once the subject's identity
has been recognized and verified), the identity is accountable for any
further actions by that subject. IT systems track activity by identities,
not by the subjects themselves. A computer doesn't know one
individual from another, but it does know that your user account is
different from all other user accounts. Simply claiming an identity
does not imply access, authorization, or authority. The identity must
be proven before use is allowed or access is granted. That process is
authentication.
Authentication

The process of verifying whether a claimed identity is valid is
authentication. Authentication requires the subject to provide
additional information that corresponds to the identity they are
claiming. The most common form of authentication is using a
password. Authentication verifies the identity of the subject by
comparing one or more factors against the database of valid
identities (that is, user accounts). The capability of the subject and
system to maintain the secrecy of the authentication factors for
identities directly reflects the level of security of that system.
Identification and authenticat